[Music]
research scientist Galen Urso and his
family are in hiding on the planet lamu
imperial weapons developer Orson Critic
arrives to force Galen into completing
the Death Star a Space Station super
weapon capable of destroying planets
Galen's wife Lyra is killed in the
confrontation while their daughter jyn
erso escapes and is rescued by rebel
Sagar era 15 years later cargo pilot oh
dear up defects from the Empire taking a
holographic message recorded by Galen to
Sagar era on the desert moon Jetta after
learning about the Death Star from an
agent at the mining colony ring of
caffeine rebel intelligence officer
casseon and or freeze jinn from an
imperial labor camp at whoa Bonnie
before bringing her to the rebel leader
Mon Mothma who convinces her to find and
rescue Galen so the Alliance can learn
more about the Death Star casseon is
covertly ordered to kill Galen rather
than extract him Jin casseon and
reprogrammed Imperial droid k2s Oh
to Jeddah where the Empire is removing
Kyber crystals from the holy city to
power the Death Star while Guerrera and
his partisans are engaged in an armed
insurgency against them with the aid of
blind spiritual warrior turret in wait
and his mercenary friend Bey's malthus
Jin makes contact with Guerrera who has
been holding rook captive Guerrera shows
her the message in which Galen reveals
he has secretly built a vulnerability
into the Death Star and directs them to
retrieve the schematics from an imperial
data bank on the planets kara on the
Death Star
cranek orders a low-powered test shot
which destroys Jettas capital jin and
her group take rook and flee the moon
but Guerrera remains to die with the
city grand moff tarkin congratulate
scran ik before using rooks defection
and security League as a pretext to take
control of the project rook leads the
group to gheylens imperial research
facility on the planet II do where
casseon chooses not to kill Galen Jin
makes her presence known moments before
rebel bombers attack the facility Galen
is wounded and dies in his daughter's
arms before she escapes with her group
on board a stolen Imperial cargo shuttle
cranek is summoned by Darth Vader to
answer for the attack on II do cranek
seeks his support for an audience with
the Emperor
but Vader instead orders him to ensure
no further breaches occur Jin proposes a
plan to steal the Death Star schematics
using the rebel fleet but fails to gain
approval from the Alliance Council who
feel victory against the Empire is now
impossible frustrated at their inaction
Jin's group lead a small squad of rebel
volunteers to raid the Data Bank
themselves arriving at Skara on the
stolen Imperial ship which rook dubs
rogue one of disguised jin & Kassian
enter the base with k2s oh while the
other rebels attacked the resident
Imperial garrison as a distraction the
rebel fleet learns of the raid from
intercepted Imperial communications and
deploy in support k2s o sacrifices
himself so Jin and cassian can retrieve
the data turret my is killed after
activating the master switch to allow
communications with the rebel fleet and
Malthus dies in a battle shortly
afterwards
rook is killed by a grenade after
informing the rebel fleet that it must
deactivate the shield surrounding the
planet to allow the transmission of the
schematics jimin casseon obtained the
schematics but they are ambushed by
cranek who was eventually shot and
wounded by cassian Jin transmits the
schematics to the rebel command ship the
Death Star enters orbit above scare off'
where Tarkin uses another low-power shot
to destroy the compromised base killing
cranek casseon and jin the rebel fleet
prepares to jump to hyperspace but many
of the fleet ships are intercepted by
Vader's flagship Vader boards the rebel
command ship and attempts to regain the
schematics but a small starship escapes
with the plans on board aboard the
fleeing ship Princess Leia declares that
the schematics will provide hope for the
rebellion
[Music]